hello everyone this is mumbo here
welcome back and today we're going to be
taking a look very simple fully
automatic sugarcane farm now the reason
we're looking at this is because AFK
streams have recently become much easier
to build whereas you used to have to
build a massive long stream of water
transporting your items outside of the
loaded chunks now you can just fire all
of your items through a portal and they
will stay on the other side completely
unloaded and they will not de-spawn so
that means that you can just keep this
loaded 24/7 it will always harvest and
your items will just go through the
portal stay there and then you can pick
them up when you want to now in my
opinion that sounds like a pretty good
deal now I might as well quickly show
you this in action so as you can see
here when our sugar cane grows this
piston will extend pushing off the sugar
cane which will then travel down our
water stream that will then trigger this
tripwire here which will reset all of
our pistons and also push out the ones
beneath taking out any remaining
sugarcane now this is a very simple
design as you can see the Redstone
behind it is pretty minimal and it's
very easy to build so let's get straight
on with this tutorial now before we get
on with a tutorial that I want you guys
to understand something this here is a
budded piston when we cause it a block
update it will extend outwards now that
is pretty much while sugarcane does over
here when the sugar cane grows in front
of the piston it will cause it a block
updates and then the piston will extend
now this tripwire back here will then
turn off this line of redstone here
which is allowing that to happen and
then this line of redstone back here
will cause it the update to make it
retract now it is all fairly simple
redstone but I just wanted to explain
that to you guys now you want to start
things off with just your bog-standard
water stream now if you do have quite a
lot of resources then I would heavily
suggest putting ice underneath this
water so your items are transported
faster which will generally speed up the
process of the harvesting but if you
don't have that kind of thing then it's
fine it works without it so then you
just want to make your wall of pistons
like this now this will just be a
three-high wall one third of it will be
your standard wall blocks and then the
upper 2/3 will be your regular pistons
like this and then you
sugar cane will go along the bottom down
here so then you just want to run blocks
across this part here just diagonal to
your upper Pistons and then blow it all
the way along here as well and we're
going to add in our trip lines you want
to place a block there and they block
there with a tripwire hook here and here
then you want to take out these three
blocks like this place redstone along
the bottom and then a piece of string up
here now that will allow it to connect
then you can just take out the rest of
this redstone here now you want to grab
some redstone dust and place it like
that and he broke up like so redstone
torch block torch and then a block on
top like that redstone torch on the side
there a repeater sedative for ticks and
then just run your redstone out to the
other end like so then grab some blocks
and just put them out like this another
torch here and then your redstone out to
the end once again and then you are done
for the redstone side of things so as
you can see when we tree this trip line
it will reset all of our pistons they
will all retract then when we cause an
update to this upper one as you can see
that extends and it's all good now the
last thing that you want to do is just
grab some iron bars and run them across
like this to prevent your items flying
outwards like that and then also cover
up any holes that you've got because
there is a potential for your shoot came
to fly out of those as well
but now we are done so if you just play
some fruit came down here as you can see
you guys harvested outwards and then
dropped into our stream now I don't have
any ice in there and as you can see is
incredibly slow so like I said having
some ice would really help with the
speed of the operation now before we go
I want to say a massive thank you to the
guy that posted this concept on reddit
I've put the link to his post in the
description below so you can check it
out he also features a couple of
different farms such as melon farms as
well which i think are really cool but I
have just done a slight edit of his
sugarcane farm and I Percy think that
this is pretty good anyway guys that is
about it for today's videos so thanks
for watching guys this has been mumbo
unarmed out I'll see ya later